**Lectures 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11**

# Lecture 1

The tripple dots in the manua pages means the there could be zero or
more options. [] defines optional options.

- `cat > hello.txt > hello2.txt` this command copies the content of file
hello.txt and paste it into hello2.txt file.


- `echo hello world | cut -d ' ' -f2` this prints second word only i.e.,
  'world'.

-  Case when you must be launch the terminal as root only(coz sudo
   command won't work it all):

   Say, `cd /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/` and then do 
   `sudo echo 500 > brightness`, so this command will fail coz we are
   echoing 500 with sudo power but shell is responsible for doing
   putting the content into brightness file and the current shell has
   no sudo permission so it still says "permission denied".
   But, what we can do instead is, `sudo su` to login to shell as
   `superuser`, and then we can simply run `echo 500 > brightness` and
   it will work simply without any permission denied error.

	We can do this same task without going into superuser shell as well
	by using command `echo 1060 | sudo tee brightness`. FYI:IMPORTANT:
	This way of doing `tee` to write to file `brightness` still throws
	Permission denied error on my archlinux though. FYI: `tee`
	command is helpful when we need to write some input fed to `tee` to
	a file but also write the input to the std output as well. For e.g.,

	```bash
	$ echo Hello world, tee. | tee helloFromTee.txt
	Hello world, tee.
	$ cat helloFromTee.txt
	Hello world, tee.
	```

- Using `open`(in arch, its already aliased as xdg-open): 

	```bash
	$ type open
	open is aliased to `xdg-open'
	$ open --help
	   xdg-open -- opens a file or URL in the user's preferred
	   application

	Synopsis

	   xdg-open { file | URL }

	   xdg-open { --help | --manual | --version }

	Use 'man xdg-open' or 'xdg-open --manual' for additional info.
	```



# Lecture 3 - Vim

Refer [here](https://github.com/sahilrajput03/sahilrajput03/blob/master/vim.md).


# Lecture 4 - Data Wrangling

All content moved @ https://github.com/sahilrajput03/sahilrajput03/blob/master/learn-bash.md#using-sed-using-missing-semester

```
# Read data from pipe via stdin in R compiler
# The point is that you can pipe ouput from other command to R compiler
cat file | R --slave -e 'x <- scan(file="stdin", quiet=TRUE); summary(x)'
```

**Learning R language**

Src: https://www.r-project.org/about.html


# Lecture 7

```bash
ls /var/log

# lsof can detect any app using a particular port
sudo lsof | grep ':8083'
sudo lsof | grep ':8083 .LISTEN'

# du stands for disk usage:
du
```


# Lecture 8

- gradle, npm, etc

```
pipi - python packages
rubygems - for ruby
crates.io - for rust
keybase - cryptographic keys repositories
apt - packages repository for ubuntu
```

# Lecture 9

Entropy - Measure of randomness.

Coin flip: log(2) = 1 bit
Dize roll: log(6) = 26 bit

## Hash functions

- They are non invertible, i.e., the digest can't be reversetd to text it was generated from. - Collision resistant
- Helps to make a commitment scheme
- Hash functions are deterministic i.e., A deterministic function always returns the same results if given the same input values.

## Key Derivation Functions(KDFs)

- They have a key generation function, which generates a random key.
- This concept is very similar to hash functios excepts the one property that it is 'SLOW TO COMPUTE'. This helps in against bruteforce attacks.
- E.g., hash derivation function PBKDF2(Password Based Key Derivation Function 2).
- They produce a fixed length output.
- They are used where we require a fixed length of input as a key to another cryptographic algorithm.

## Encryption/Description

### Symmetric Key Cryptography

These sytems have:

- Encrypt fn :

```bash
# Encryption
encryptFn(plain text, KEY{from KDFs}) -> cipher text

# Decryption
decryptFn(ciphertext, KEY) -> plaintext
```

- Given the cipher text, we can't figure out the plain text without the KEY.
- Obvious correctness property:

`decrypt (encrypt(plaintext,key),key) = plaintext`

## openssl

- To apply a symmetric cipher to some file.
- one symmetric cipher name: aes-256-cbc

```bash
# Encrypt
openssl aes-256-cbc -salt -in hello.txt -out hello.txt.enc
# You are prompted with password (passphrase) which is then passed to KDF to produce a key.
### REMEMBER THE passphrase though.


# Decrypt
openssl aes-256-cbc -d -in hello.txt.enc -out hello.txt.dec

# compare decrypted text and original text
cmp hello.txt hello.txt.dec; echo $?
##FYI: 0 return value means no error happened.
```

## AES256

- This has 256 bit of entropy in its generated key.

## Others

- A passphrase with 64 bit entropy is good for generating keys with hash functions.

- https://haveibeenpwned.com/ is site where you can check if some password has been compromised from any site that youused earlier. It used hashes to compare with your email addresses though.
- What is salted passwords and what are its benefit of salted passwords ?

Ans. You store two entities for any user i.e., random salt and password hash. So even if a user(whose password hash is exposed in a attack) is using same password in different sites, then the attacker won't have access to other sites coz the salt is used different in each site, thus password hash would be different.

```json
{
	"user": {
		"salt": "g35dirb",
		"passwdHash": "84bf83m3g58k"
	}
}
```

- Same salt or different salt for all users, i think the best is to use both i.e., src: https://stackoverflow.com/a/29786297/10012446.
- You may also use a static salt with your backend code and a random salt stored in the user table as well.
- passwdHash is generated by using a salt value.
- Every user has its own unique salt value generated randomly.

## Asymmetric Key cryptography

- Keygen() function generates (pubK, priateK)
- Thes pubK and privateK can be used to encrypt something similarly as we did in application of symmetric key cryptography but now we have roles for each of our privateK and pubK as:

```bash
encrpt(plaintext, publickey) -> ciphertext
decrypt(ciphertext, privateKey) -> plaintext
```

- now these two keys have different functionality and usages
- now anybody on internet can have my public key and encrypt any piece of data for me and I can decrypt it using my private key.
- As long as my privat key remains secret, anybody on internet can use it send data to me safely using my public key. This is where asymmetry keys comes from.
- Analogy with practical life:
  - Symmetric: A single key locks and unlocks the door, so you can't give your this key to anybody.
  - Asymmetric: You can give the key which lock to anybody and then only you can open the doors. Say there are 100 rooms in hotel and you give public keys to all 100 people and say them to store anything and lock with the locking key and then only I would be able to unlock each of those rooms.
- Usage in digital signing:

```bash
# Digital signatures:
sign(message, privateKey) -> signature
verify(message, signature, publicKey) -> OK
```

- Hard to forge (without private key)
- RSA is type of asymmetric key cryptography.

## git verify

```
git tag
# shows tags

git cat-file -p  vX.Y.Z
# shows raw data associated with this tag
git tag -v xX.Y.Z
# It'll show like:
# "Good signature from "Anish Athalye <me@email@.com>"
```

## hybrid encrpytion

In practical we use both symmetric and asymmetric key cryptography.

See @ https://youtu.be/tjwobAmnKTo?list=PLyzOVJj3bHQuloKGG59rS43e29ro7I57J&t=3353


# Lecture 10

- d stands for daemon i.e., `systemd`, `sshd` etc
-

```bash
#Show all services running in linux:
systemctl status
```

```bash
# Usage of -- in bash commands
#### -- in any command can tell that don not interpret anything following it as a flag or option, for e.g.,
# Say , we want to create a file name `-i`
touch -i
# Output
touch: invalid option -- 'i'
Try 'touch --help' for more information.
touch -- -i
# Output
ls
# Output (file created)
-i

### Say now we want to remove a file named `-i`
rm -i
# Output
rm: missing operand
Try 'rm --help' for more information.
rm -- -i
ls
# Output: (file removed!)
```

- Vagrant: A tool for creating virtual machines with config files (very similar to docker). It has 23.5k stars on github

```bash
https://www.vagrantup.com/
https://github.com/hashicorp/vagrant
```

docker vs. vagrant:

- https://www.vagrantup.com/intro/vs/docker
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16647069/should-i-use-vagrant-or-docker-for-creating-an-isolated-environment


